Overhaul of Section 5.1.1. (#163)
ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture: draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.md

In order to accommodate as many Transparency Service implementations as possible, this document only specifies the format of Signed Statements (which must be used by all Issuers) and a very thin wrapper format for Receipts, which specifies the Transparency Service identity and the agility parameters for the Signed Inclusion Proofs.
Most of the details of the Receipt's contents are specified in the COSE Signed Merkle Tree Proof document {{-COMETRE}}.

This section describes at a high level, the three main roles and associated processes in SCITT: Issuers and Signed Statements, Transparency Service and the Signed Statement Registration process, as well as Verifiers of the Transparent Statements and the Receipt validation process.

## Signed Statement Issuance and Registration

### Structure and Content of Signed Statements

> Before an Issuer is able to produce Signed Statements, it must first create an identifier and obtain an identity document that is acceptable to the Transparency Service.

Reviewer: A bit of tweaking as an Issuer can produce signed statements, which they may submit to any number of transparency services. The registration policy may fail if it doesn't support a type of identity, but as worded it sounds like you can't sign a statement, as opposed to the TS doesn't have to accept it.
I was trying to find an alternative way to say this, but is this sentence needed at all?
```suggestion
```

Author: With the "new" title and structure I felt that this lead-in sentence now felt off. Less, crisp text is better. Any objections?

> Transparency Services MUST support the capability to associate an X.509v3 certificate with a Signed Statement using a hash (thumbprint) of the certificate as specified in {{Section 2 of RFC9360}} by supporting the `x5t` COSE header parameter. The `x5t` COSE header parameter MUST be included in the protected header of a Signed Statement's COSE envelope. The mechanisms how Transparency Services obtain corresponding X.509v3 certificates, e.g., as part of enforcing Registration Policy, is out-of-scope of this document.

Reviewer: added line wrapping for PR feedback
```suggestion
Transparency Services MUST support the capability to associate an X.509v3 certificate with a Signed Statement using a hash (thumbprint) of the certificate as specified in {{Section 2 of RFC9360}} by supporting the `x5t` COSE header parameter.
The `x5t` COSE header parameter MUST be included in the protected header of a Signed Statement's COSE envelope.
The mechanisms for how Transparency Services obtain corresponding X.509v3 certificates, e.g., as part of enforcing a Registration Policy, is out-of-scope of this document.
```

Transparency Services MAY support many other identifier formats for identifying many other identity document formats. Alternative identifiers for identity documents MUST also be included in the protected header of the COSE envelope. Only one type of identity document identifier MUST be included in a Signed Statement's COSE envelope.

> As Issuers MUST rotate verification keys for signature checking in well-defined cryptoperiods (see {{KEY-MANAGEMENT}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issuers MUST rotate verification keys for signature checking in well-defined cryptoperiods (see {{KEY-MANAGEMENT}}).
```

> Issuers MAY migrate to new signing and verification algorithms, but the Transparency Service remains responsible for admitting Signed Statements that complies with its active Registration Policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transparency Services MUST specify their supported signature algorithms in their registration policies.
```

Reviewer: @OR13, doesn't this pull in the standardization of registration policies, if we say they must specify their supported algorithms?

Author: Last open item for discussion today

Reviewer 2: its ok to say MUST and leave it as an implementation detail

> The version of the key used to sign the Signed Statement MAY be included via the `kid` COSE header parameter in the protected header. Key discovery protocols are out-of-scope of this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `kid` header parameter MUST be present when the `x5t` header parameter is not present. Key discovery protocols are out-of-scope of this document.
```

Reviewer: nit: line wrap sentences, please.

Author: If there are no objections, this suggestion is good to go.

> An Issuer identifier and a Subject identifier are required to be included in the COSE envelope. Consequently, the protected header of a Signed Statement MUST include the `CWT Claims` header parameter as specified in {{Section 2 of CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}. The CBOR map that constitutes the corresponding `CWT Claims` value MUST include the `Issuer Claim` (Claim label 1) and the `Subject Claim` (Claim label 2) {{IANA.cwt}}.

Reviewer: Line formatting for PR feedback and consistency
```suggestion
An Issuer identifier and a Subject identifier are required to be included in the COSE envelope. Consequently, the protected header of a Signed Statement MUST include the `CWT Claims` header parameter as specified in {{Section 2 of CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}.
The CBOR map that constitutes the corresponding `CWT Claims` value MUST include the `Issuer Claim` (Claim label 1) and the `Subject Claim` (Claim label 2) {{IANA.cwt}}.
```

Most of the details of the Receipt's contents are specified in the COSE Signed Merkle Tree Proof document {{-COMETRE}}.

This section describes at a high level, the three main roles and associated processes in SCITT: Issuers and Signed Statements, Transparency Service and the Signed Statement Registration process, as well as Verifiers of the Transparent Statements and the Receipt validation process.

## Signed Statement Issuance and Registration

### Structure and Content of Signed Statements

Before an Issuer is able to produce Signed Statements, it must first create an identifier and obtain an identity document that is acceptable to the Transparency Service.
Transparency Services MUST support the capability to associate an X.509v3 certificate with a Signed Statement using a hash (thumbprint) of the certificate as specified in {{Section 2 of RFC9360}} by supporting the `x5t` COSE header parameter.

> The `x5t` COSE header parameter MUST be included in the protected header of a Signed Statement's COSE envelope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `x5t` COSE header parameter MUST be included in the protected header of a Signed Statement's COSE envelope.
When `x5t` is present, `iss` MUST be a string with a value between 1 and 8192 characters in length that fits the regular expression of a distinguished name.
```

Reviewer 3: I suggest specifying the second sentence (on line 374) as:
```When `x5t` is present, `iss` MUST be the {{!RFC 4514}} string representation of the subject distinguished name of the certificate whose thumbprint is included in `x5t`.
```

Author: :+1:

The version of the key used to sign the Signed Statement MAY be included via the `kid` COSE header parameter in the protected header. Key discovery protocols are out-of-scope of this document.

An Issuer identifier and a Subject identifier are required to be included in the COSE envelope. Consequently, the protected header of a Signed Statement MUST include the `CWT Claims` header parameter as specified in {{Section 2 of CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}.
The CBOR map that constitutes the corresponding `CWT Claims` value MUST include the `Issuer Claim` (Claim label 1) and the `Subject Claim` (Claim label 2) {{IANA.cwt}}.

Figure {{fig-signed-statement}} illustrated a normative CDDL definition for the composition of the protected header in COSE envelope of SCITT Signed Statements.

~~~ cddl
CWT_Claims = {
    1 => tstr            ; iss, the issuer making statements
    2 => tstr            ; sub, the subject of the statements
  * int => any
}

Protected_Header = {
    1 => int             ; algorithm identifier
    3 => tstr            ; payload type
  ? 4 => bstr            ; Key ID (kid)
   15 => CWT_Claims      ; CBOR Web Token Claims

>    34 => COSE_CertHash   ; x5t, hash of an X.509 certificate
> }
> ~~~
> {: #fig-signed-statement title="CDDL definition for SCITT Signed Statements"}

Author: ```suggestion
   34 => COSE_CertHash   ; x5t, hash of an X.509 certificate
   * int => any
}
~~~
{: #fig-signed-statement title="CDDL definition for SCITT Signed Statements"}
```

## Signed Statement Issuance and Registration

### Structure and Content of Signed Statements

> Before an Issuer is able to produce Signed Statements, it must first create an identifier and obtain an identity document that is acceptable to the Transparency Service.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to make registering identity documents mandatory prior to accepting signed statements from issuers?

This makes the replay verification simple, find the public key in the log, then find each signature.

Author: I would very, very much like that. They'll be used in Registration Policies and those also should be registered. So - yeah +1 (to automation, resilience, and transparency!)

Transparency Services MUST support the capability to associate an X.509v3 certificate with a Signed Statement using a hash (thumbprint) of the certificate as specified in {{Section 2 of RFC9360}} by supporting the `x5t` COSE header parameter. The `x5t` COSE header parameter MUST be included in the protected header of a Signed Statement's COSE envelope. The mechanisms how Transparency Services obtain corresponding X.509v3 certificates, e.g., as part of enforcing Registration Policy, is out-of-scope of this document.

> Transparency Services MAY support many other identifier formats for identifying many other identity document formats. Alternative identifiers for identity documents MUST also be included in the protected header of the COSE envelope. Only one type of identity document identifier MUST be included in a Signed Statement's COSE envelope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transparency Services MAY support other identifier formats for identifying other identity document formats. Alternative identifiers for identity documents MUST also be included in the protected header of the COSE envelope.
```

Reviewer 2: reasoning being that `iss` and `kid` are alternative names for `x5t` so logically, if `iss` and `x5t` are present, we are allowing / requiring multiple identifiers.

Author: So including several (potential conflicting identity document identifier is fine? Or do we want text, if there are multiple they MUST relate to the same identity document?

Reviewer 2: If my registration policy accepts your message, I see no reason for us to say more.

The industry pressure for multiple receipts will cause the alignment here, and I doubt we can normatively capture all the possible ways to indirectly refer to an "identity document".

Author: Good. I agree. Maybe some Security Considerations? Created #170 as a reminder.

> Issuers SHOULD use consistent identifiers for all their Statements about Artifacts to simplify authorization by Verifiers and auditing.
> If an Issuer uses multiple identifiers across their Statements, they MUST ensure that Statements signed under each identifier are consistent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Let people reflect the graphs that exist today... even if they are not great. Policy can be used to adjust this, we don't need normative guidance here.

Author: I am happy whenever we can stay less prescriptive. okay

Issuers MAY rotate verification keys at any time and SHOULD rotate verification keys at an appropriate and consistent cryptoperiod (see {{KEY-MANAGEMENT}}).
Issuers MAY migrate to new signing and verification algorithms, but the Transparency Service remains responsible for admitting Signed Statements that complies with its active Registration Policies.
The version of the key used to sign the Signed Statement MAY be included via the `kid` COSE header parameter in the protected header. Key discovery protocols are out-of-scope of this document.

An Issuer identifier is required to be included in the COSE envelope. The protected header of a Signed Statement MUST include the `CWT Claims` header parameter as specified in {{Section 2 of CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}. The CBOR map that constitutes the corresponding `CWT Claims` value MUST include the `Issuer Claim` (Claim label 1, see {{IANA.cwt}}) where the value MUST represent the Issuer identifier.

> An Subject identifier is also required to be included in the COSE envelope. The CBOR map that constitutes the corresponding `CWT Claims` value MUST include the `Subject Clain` (Claim label 2, see {{IANA.cwt}}) where the value MUST represent the Subject identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Subject identifier is also required to be included in the COSE envelope. The CBOR map that constitutes the corresponding `CWT Claims` value MUST include the `Subject Claim` (Claim label 2, see {{IANA.cwt}}) where the value MUST represent the Subject identifier.
```

Figure {{fig-signed-statement}} illustrated a normative CDDL definition for the composition of the protected header in COSE envelope of SCITT Signed Statements.

~~~ cddl
CWT_Claims = {
    1 => tstr            ; iss, the issuer making statements
    2 => tstr            ; sub, the subject of the statements
  * int => any
}

Protected_Header = {
    1 => int             ; algorithm identifier
    3 => tstr            ; payload type
  ? 4 => bstr            ; Key ID (kid)
   15 => CWT_Claims      ; CBOR Web Token Claims

>    34 => COSE_CertHash   ; x5t, hash of an X.509 certificate

Reviewer 2: are additional properties allowed here? I think they should be.

Author: they were not allowed previously. While that does not make a lot of sense, I kept it that way for now.

Author: 17h later, it still makes no sense, changed it via suggestion feature.
